Subteam: High-Voltage TeamMembers: Liliia Shanina, Cruz Herrera, Franco AvalosList the engineering decisions or data that your subteam owns? You must list at least three clearly defined engineering decisions or data products that your team will generate.Decision 1: Our High-Voltage Team will design the optimal s – p battery configuration by analyzing simulated and experimental voltage and current data using MATLAB, GT Auto Lion, and GT Power that Thermal simulation and Thermal Management Teams can use to design efficient thermal integration strategyDecision 2: Our team will determine an optimal segmentation of the pack by estimating the number of segments needed to satisfy capacity requirements and power ratings Decision 3: Our team will estimate battery pack dimensions, accounting for the physical constraints, to accommodate existing volumeWhat specific inputs do you require to answer the above questions?From IITM:Motor specs (nominal voltage, current requirements, torque map)Mathematical equations/models used in the past, e.g. Ohm’s, Ampere’s, Kirchhoff’s lawsPhysical constraints of pack dimensionsConstraints on pack housing sizeFrom Data Generation Team:Track data From Thermal Management Team:Required cell spacing for CAD model From Cell Testing and Fuse Design Team:Experimental cell data (P45B Molicel) While other teams are developing models and generating data, how will you start your work? Think about the workflow:Become familiar with the cell data on the data sheet Obtain motor specsStart writing a MATLAB script for optimizing battery configurationStart learning the interface of GT Auto Lion and GT Power If your team fails to answer the questions above, what breaks in the overall IPRO’s success? What downstream teams are affected?Thermal Management, Aerodynamics, and Fuse Design Teams will not be able to finalize their projects.What design decisions become impossible?Without a completed battery configuration, cool plate and air-cooling system cannot be designed, and optimal fuse material cannot be tested.What safety or performance risks exists?Incorrect estimation of maximum possible voltage can lead to catastrophic damage to the entire electrical system, lower endurance (cars will not be able to finish the race), and unrealistic assembly requirements.
